Chris: I think
there's a grouse.
It flew right back in here.
Jessi: Oh, right here,
right here, right here,
right here.
It's a good size grouse.
Chris: Yeah.
Jessi: If I miss the shot,
I could totally
lose the bird,
and I can't waste
those opportunities,
or come December,
January, February,
I'm going to be
sorely disappointed.
Chris: You got about
three seconds to get on
him and kill him.
Jessi: Ow, dang.
Oh, come on.
Thank you, grouse.
When it comes to
hunting and fishing,
I will get my hands dirty.
I took off its head cause
I want it to die fast.
Chris: Oh, good job.
Jessi: I don't
want him to suffer.
I feel like this is an omen.
Winter is coming.
We need to get everything
buttoned up so we can make it
through the rough winter
that it always is.
Jessi: Great, there's that.
Chris: Ah, this is
the one that I wanna use.
Should probably
check this thing out,
it's been sitting up
there a little while.
Just stretch it all
the way out for me.
The fall in alaska's
pretty short.
And the cosna's a really
tough place to harvest fish.
Ice is coming,
and once that hits,
we're going to have to pull
our nets and stop fishing,
which means you have to do
everything in your power in a
very limited amount of
time to catch these fish.
Gotta make sure all the
knots are tight but looks
like it's in good shape.
Jessi: And this is
supposed to be tied, right?
Like that?
Chris: Yeah, make
sure it's tight enough
a fishy can't get out.
I think we should go, try
dropping this thing in.
If the fish get in there,
they're not getting out.
The fats that
you find in fish are
really healthy for you.
As we get into
the colder days,
we're really gonna need those.
When you eat it, you can
actually feel the energy burn
inside of you.
Especially when it's
40 and 50 below.
So, it's one of the best
sources of fat that we really
want to chase after.
Okay. Yeah.
There's a small eddy
up here on the river that
I'd like to get down to.
It looked like it was a
pretty good fishing spot
from our side of the river.
See if we can work
our way down there.
Just walk really carefully.
Jessi: The river is
obviously coming downriver.
Is this the spot?
Chris: Yeah, look at this nice
little eddy that's coming in.
Jessi: That eddy is a
current, actually going up,
and its usually kind of a
small area on the outer bank
and that's where we want
to put the fyke net.
Chris: And we're gonna
go one, two, and release.
Jessi: We want the fyke
net in the pathway that the
fish is gonna take when
it's going upriver.
Chris: And let it sink.
Jessi: The fish is gonna
take that turn into the eddy,
exactly where the opening
of the fyke net needs to be.
Chris: Perfect.
That looks great.
(grunt)
but we gotta expect that the
water's gonna come up too, so.
Jessi: Yeah,
I mean if it comes up more
than two or three feet,
we might, you know,
be in trouble,
but I am slightly worried
about the fyke net.
The river is rising right now,
so if the river rises too much,
or if the bank
gives away, we're out,
our only fyke net.
But I'm still gonna give
it a shot because there is
still a chance that tomorrow,
that thing's gonna
be full of fish.
Chris: It is very important
to catch fresh food out here.
We're always low.
And this is gonna be
a way to get ahead.
Michael: This asphalt
that we put down;
this is just a little blip
in the history of humans.
You know, these liquid roads?
These are the
realest road around.
Michael: The crisp part of
fall is finally kicking in.
Frost every night.
This is prime time for moose.
I'm moving with a purpose.
My heart is just pumping hard.
I'm in the hunt mode.
And this right here,
this frosty, freezing cold,
this is what gets them
big bulls moving down here
to the river.
And today's gonna
be a good day.
Narrator: With moose
hunting season nearing an end,
michael manzo must track
down a bull moose to
secure his lifeline of meat
for the dark winter ahead.
Michael: My pursuit
of new wild river,
this feeds it very well.
This is one of the
slimmest rivers I think
I've ever hunted.
And I'm happy to be here,
but I would really
like to come out of here
with some moose meat.
That is the number
one priority.
To subsist for the winter
off what I catch in the fall.
The fog's starting to
clear and I see a big bluff
relatively close to the river.
So, I'm gonna hike up there.
Get to sendin' some calls out
and try to get on a moose.
A couple more hard frosts,
these leaves will
drop off these trees.
I might be able to see
another twenty yards in
and catch a moose that I
otherwise wouldn't have seen.
Moose tracks.
They're here.
There's a lot of activity here.
This is a highway.
This is what I'm looking for.
The anticipation builds
as this fog is set in.
You couldn't even cut
that with a knife.
I just really want to
see this landscape,
get my bearings and get my
moose calls up above the
sounds of the water.
If I see a moose.
It's gonna be a safe but mad
dash down this mountaintop.
As this fog recedes back
from the cold frosty night,
all the peaks
should be exposed.
I'll get my call up.
(imitating moose call)
I might keep my eyes peeled
on this little creek here.
I can see good depth
a couple, three miles up.
Looks like it's got
some good flow to it.
I'm gonna get down to the
boat and motor down here,
check out this creek.
Brittany: Living out here in
mccarthy it's not super easy
to just run to the grocery
store any time you need meat.
Brittany: Ahh,
what do you hear?
What do you hear?
Look at that.
What do you think's
in the cages?
Elovie: Bunnies.
Brittany: Bunnies?
Yay! You got us bunnies.
How'd they do on
the four-wheeler?
Kaleb: Oh, they did great.
Brittany: Yeah?
So, normally in the winter,
we have about 30 people here.
This last winter
when covid started,
there were around 100 people,
which is a big deal when
thinking about the fall hunts.
We may not have enough
big game animals to
feed that many people,
so I decided to start
raising some of our own meat.
All right, you can open it.
Elovie: So pretty and nice.
Not even biting.
Brittany: Are you
excited to see little
baby rabbits sometime?
My children are
definitely too young to go
out hunting on their own,
however they can
begin to learn things
like animal husbandry.
I have never
built a rabbit cage.
I have never raised rabbits,
but I'm very
eager to try both.
I'll be building
these hutches with
my six year-old, gilbert.
Hold this.
(drill whirring)
look at that.
And my four-year-old, elovie.
You do it.
Elovie: Whoa.
Brittany: Nice.
'kay, can you please not?
Hopefully no one gets hurt.
♪ I talk it out, talk it out,
I talk it out, I talk ♪♪
brittany: But I think it's
going to be a lot of fun.
I don't often get to use
power tools, but when I do,
I like it.
This is not a
kaleb rowland building.
This is a
brittany rowland building.
And that means it will
have some beautiful unique
qualities such as
not being square.
Elovie: That looks
too beautiful.
Brittany: Too beautiful?
There we go.
The frame is done.
The walls are the next phase.
Alex: If I'm not going to
buy new technology to solve
all of my inconveniences,
then what I have to
do is change myself.
It's not really
to define myself,
it's more to refine myself.
There's only a few days
left of moose season.
After that, moose
is off the table,
and I'll have to depend on
whatever small game I can hunt.
If I get a moose, that's
basically peace of mind for
the entire winter.
To do my moose calling,
it's a little better
to have a megaphone.
Of course,
you can, you know,
buy plastic
ones at the store.
I don't have access to that,
so, uh, birch bark will do.
Think that's good.
I've never done this before,
but it's always fun
to try something new.
No matter, like, how tough
you are, how smart you are.
This is working
real good, I think.
You have to be ready
to reinvent yourself.
Pull it tight.
My name is alex javor and
we're in bear creek, alaska.
There's not too many
places left in the world
where you can be free.
Living a really soft
lifestyle in the city,
I wanted to see if I could
just move out into the
wilderness and make it.
I could've lived
off-grid in tennessee,
but I chose alaska
for the challenge.
My main goal living out
here is to wean myself
off the teat of society,
to get all of my meat and
a lot of my food in general
just from the land here.
Everything here
is more extreme.
And that's what I like.
You also have to remember,
this place is
always bigger than you.
Yeah, just like that.
Perfect.
I got a new tool I can
take with me for the hunt.
Hopefully it'll, uh, be
worth the time it took to make.
(animal call)
(clears throat)
ah, it's more like.
(animal call)
sipsey!
Hey. Hey. Sipsey!
For moose hunting, it's
kind of a tough balance.
I'm walking a long ways,
and then I also have to be
prepared to carry back
thousands of pounds of meat if
I'm successful, so I need
to travel light and fast
at the same time.
I need to make sure I have
everything that I need.
One last thing, gotta
make sure sipsey, hey,
look at him ready to go.
Sipsey.
Come here.
For the moose hunt,
I think it's best if
I don't take sipsey.
See you soon, buddy, okay?
Sipsey might chase
after it, rile it up.
It's just kind of
unpredictable what a
dog might do.
But, it's kind of scary
walking around without him.
Even with a
shotgun or a rifle.
Come out here
unprepared and at best,
you're probably going to
have a really bad day.
At worst, you could
end up dead out here,
and you're really never
completely in control,
so you have to keep the faith.
Jessi: In town,
social media or tv or
whoever are telling you,
you need to do these
certain things, like,
I don't have that type
of pressure out here.
I have more
dangerous pressures,
but I will take
that every day over the
dangers of being in town.
Chris: Whoa.
Jessi: Oh, man.
Chris: Look how much this
river's come overnight.
Chris: I'm thinking at least
five feet since last night.
God, I bet the
net is underwater.
Jessi: Holy smokes.
I mean, everything's gone.
The bank's gone, where
we were standing is gone.
I don't know how
we're going to be able
to find the fyke net.
Jessi: As the minutes tick by,
this river takes all
of the bank away.
We need to find our, our net.
Chris: It's a constant
battle with this river.
The cosna's fed by
rainwater way upriver.
We're talking 50 to 100 miles.
Aw, man, love.
I don't know if we
can get down there.
So, if it rained
heavy three days ago,
this water's going up.
Okay.
Jessi: What am I gonna do
if you go into the water?
Chris: Just stay put.
Whoa! That's deep.
Okay.
Just hoping I
can feel the line.
But.
Jessi: Be careful, love.
Chris: Love, I
feel like we lost it.
I found my line.
Jessi: Did you?
Chris: Yeah.
Jessi: Okay.
I'm mean, if the line's there,
then it's likely there's still
a net there, right?
Chris: Yeah. I gotta get
this net before we lose it.
Whew! Holy (bleep)!
That's cold.
Jessi: Big log
coming your way.
Chris: I got it.
Jessi: You go it?
Chris: Let's see if I
can get it outta here.
All right.
Jessi: Well?
Chris: Nothing.
Jessi: Nada.
Chris: Look where it's tied.
Jessi: Way down there?
Chris: Yeah.
I was worried we lost the net.
I'm not so bummed I
didn't catch a fish.
I mean, I would love to catch
a fish but losing the net
would have really sucked.
Just cause the fyke
net didn't work today,
doesn't mean we're giving up.
Jessi: I got it.
It's in my hands.
Chris: We gotta get
fish for this winter.
Alex: I don't like
depending on a complex system,
it's like if someone else fails
on the other side of the world,
it'll make it
hard for me to live.
Self-reliance is one of
the most important values we
should try to honor.
I'm not trying
to die out here,
I'm trying to stay alive.
Today I'm doing a reconnaissance
of the north area.
For a new place to hunt moose.
This is as far as
I've been to the north.
Before I left, I
studied a topographic map.
Found some satellite
photos of the area,
you know, you should
have a big, nice,
open clearing up here,
where I can see for
potentially hundreds of miles.
But this kind of forest, it's
kind of the toughest (bleep)
alaska has to offer.
It's a doozy.
But I just gotta
trust my compass.
I know that if I
head 280 degrees,
I'm going to be
heading the right direction.
Hmm. I don't know.
It's no country
for a bull moose.
It looks like there
was an apocalypse here.
I think this is maybe what I
thought was the clearing on
the satellite images.
I thought that was tundra.
This is the remains
of a forest fire.
This is the opposite of
what I wanted to find.
As far as I can see,
there's just these dead,
kinda gnarled trees.
So, you can see here the ash
on the trees where they burned.
So, the forest fire, you know,
obviously destroyed everything.
But it created just
the right conditions
for these blueberries.
Um, and they're really good.
So, I'm glad I wasn't here
when there was a forest fire.
That was probably
pretty terrifying,
but it created
something new and good.
This is the kind of
thing that I really enjoy
about being out here.
The simple pleasures.
They're good, but there's
really no point to try and
hunt up here.
I don't think animals like
to come through this
any more than I do.
Is that a
sandhill crane yakking?
Oh, yeah, look,
look, look, look!
They're really close.
Tomorrow, I've only got
one place left to hunt.
It's not a great spot, but
it's pretty much my last shot.
That's pretty cool.
I've never seen
them so low down.
Usually, they're really high.
They should be going
south for the winter,
they're kind of
heading east right now,
but I'm sure they know
where they're going.
It's gonna be a lot of
work to find a moose.
(imitating moose call).
Michael: Just like
the river of life,
you never know
what's around the bend.
And that to me is
an addictive thing.
Your ears are stinging.
And the wind's going through
whatever you're wearing,
your nose starts running.
Just deal with it.
My, oh my.
It's a bit on the
noisy side, this river.
I'm not seeing a
lot of moose tracks, so.
I think these moose stay up
right near the major creek.
Hard luck creek.
It's quieter and they
find little kettle ponds,
and little moose pastures
where they can hang out.
I just have to see new
rivers all the time.
I can't stop.
This ain't even a
river, this is a creek.
Getting shallow.
Gonna go ahead and
jump out right here.
This is in my blood.
Challenging.
Let's get it on.
And maybe a moose as well.
That what's around the
bend mentality is kicking in.
But I don't want to push my
luck too much on a creek named
"hard luck."
and I think I've
gone far enough.
This river valley is
a corridor for moose.
So, what I'd like to do, is I
like to throw out a cow call
in one direction.
(imitating moose call).
And I like to throw out
a bull tending run in
a different direction.
(imitating moose call).
Everything increases
your odds when you're
throwing out calls.
But look at that sun.
Low in the sky.
Time to get home.
It's been a long day.
Going downstream with
the current pushing you,
sometimes it pushes
you into something that
you don't want to go down.
And it's harder to
judge where the rocks are.
Gotta really be on your game
when you're going down river.
As good as you
can be, anyways.
I didn't even see that.
Yup.
Whew.
(bleep) this creek.
Jesus (bleep).
Too much of a turn
with a 22-foot boat.
Every day that I stay out
here later into the season,
it's quite the risk
pushing moose meat.
These motors don't like running
around in really cold weather.
I'm gonna feel that.
Hard luck.
So, I've got maybe at most
two days of hunting left,
and then I gotta
get off this river.
Brittany: I refer to my
children as free-range children.
Elovie: Ahh!
Brittany: It's
exactly how that sounds.
I let them roam
around our property,
as opposed to if we
lived in the city.
All right, little ones.
We need to decide how big the
hole should be for the rabbits
to hop through to
their nesting box.
If I lift this up,
this is how tall it is.
This is two feet.
Elovie: Yeah. Uh-huh.
Brittany: Like.
Gilbert: No, that,
no, that's too small.
Brittany: Maybe
up to this one?
Gilbert: Yeah, up there.
Brittany: All right, you
have to come over here,
and I need you
guys to sit on these.
You guys are my helpers.
Hold your ears.
Elovie: Like this?
Brittany: Yeah. Both hands.
Gilbert. Both hands.
It's a lot of fun to
have the kids around.
I really do love them,
and I really do enjoy it.
And I love that they are
capable of helping me,
even if it's not
exactly how I want it to go.
Elovie: Yay!
A little door!
Brittany: Ellie, can
you hold that end?
I'm trying to push
it, can you pull it?
There we go.
That's not too bad.
Elovie: Not too bad!
Brittany: As any mother knows,
it is really hard to get
anything done
with the children.
Gilbert: Drill holes!
Brittany: No.
You may not drill holes.
Hand me the screws.
Even if they sometimes
actually hinders things.
Elovie: Yay!
Brittany: Too loud.
It's a lot of fun
to have them help.
This is how you get
projects done as a mother.
A little bit of time here, and
I little bit of time there, and
"oh, they're
hungry again?"
kaleb: Do you need a hand?
Brittany: So, this is
just shimmied a little bit,
can you square it
up there so that.
Kaleb: Yup.
Brittany: Excellent.
Tell me when.
Kaleb: Okay, you
can screw it in.
Don't hit my fingers.
Brittany: No promises!
I hope these rabbits
appreciate everything that
we're doing for them.
And they give us lots
and lots of babies!
Elovie: Whee!
Brittany: And that is done.
Kaleb: I like it.
Brittany: Thank you.
Kaleb: Gilbert!
Brittany: Ugh.
Alex: I know that I really
value challenges, even
though you totally regret it
and you swear you'll
never do it again.
Uh, but somehow I just keep
doing stuff like this.
Uh, it's just my life.
Today's my last shot, but
I've recon to north, west, east.
No good hunting areas.
And now's my last shot in the
south to be able to find moose.
Not too many
people do it like this.
I imagine that's why most
hunters stick to places they
can get to with the vehicles.
I was really hoping
this year I'd find a
better place to hunt.
I was hoping to find
some ideal location.
I didn't find anything.
So, best I can do is return to
my usual stomping grounds and
give it one last hail mary.
I'm going to leave my backpack
here and just basically try to
get up to the top of that
hill before I call it quits.
I just want to get a
good look down this valley,
make sure that I'm not missing
something before I head back.
Once I get into
that thick forest,
it's real easy to
get turned around,
so I'm just going to
hang this coat up.
I don't want to give up yet,
I need to be a little bit
stubborn here, and
when I come back,
I don't want to waste another
hour trying to figure out
where I put my stuff, kind
of like writing a checklist
before you go to
the grocery store.
Something to
save you some time.
Of course, you won't get lost
for hours in the grocery store
and want to kill yourself,
but kinda same idea.
That's about it.
Those trees are
kinda in my way.
I'm not gonna climb a
tree, that's crazy.
I think this is about the
best view I'm gonna get.
This is pretty much the
end of the ridgeline.
Take a look on my
binoculars to be sure.
As far as I can see,
black spruce trees.
Basically, a wasteland.
Moose, they don't like
thick woods like this.
It's pretty safe to say
this is a place I can
scratch off the list.
That doesn't really bode
well for me if I want to kinda
consistently get
moose every year.
I might have to look into
traveling somewhere else.
I had high hopes,
they were shot down.
Of course, even
though I don't expect to,
you know, there's some chance
I could bump into a moose
along the way.
That's always a possibility.
So, I need to keep my
eyes and ears tuned in.
You know, I don't want
to just be staring at
my feet in front of me.
There's one.
Right in the middle of the
tree, about halfway up.
There's a grouse.
Usually, if you see one,
there's always going to be a
second one nearby.
So, I'm going to
go real quiet.
If I can get a
couple of grouse,
tonight won't feel
like such a failure.
Threw my earphones off
just because I want to hear,
you know, in case they move...
Talking.
(gunshot).
(gunshots).
Ahh, I hope that
one didn't get stuck.
But I don't know if
the first one came down.
Oh, he did.
They're both down.
Okay. Nice.
It's no moose, but, you know,
it still kind of gives you a
little dopamine kick.
A lot of
high-quality protein there.
They were relying
on the camouflage so
I wouldn't see them.
You know, their camouflage
works great for other predators,
it's not much use against a
man with a shotgun, of course.
This is, kind of
on a larger scale,
a little bit disappointing,
because I came out here
looking for an entire
winter's worth of meat.
More importantly, I didn't
find a good moose hunting area.
But, one night of dinner is
better than zero nights.
Mostly, I'm just thinking
about putting on some dry socks.
(imitating moose call).
Michael: If I come out
of here empty-handed,
I won't regret it.
I'm here for the challenge.
I'm not here for an easy way.
My last day of the
hunt is tomorrow.
I've been going at this
for a good long while.
I've put away a lot of moose
in my time and I've hunted a
lot of places, but this is the
most sparse I've ever hunted.
It's one of the biggest-bodied
cows I've ever seen.
Literally looked like a
bull moose with no antlers.
That's a big hoof for a cow.
Look!
There's the bed right here.
Where there's a cow,
there could be a bull.
It's where they bed down.
They're in estrus right now,
it'll drive bulls to them.
So, I'm gonna camp here.
(imitating moose call).
Just below this bend right
here is the bedding area for
the first moose I've
seen all trip long.
A lot of tracks through
here, cows with calves.
That tells me
there's a bull close by.
I'm gonna stay right on a cot.
I'm not even gonna
sleep in a tent.
Don't even wanna have a tarp.
I just wanna be dialed
into my surroundings.
If something comes in,
I got my rifle right here.
If it rains tonight,
I don't give a crap.
I'm as close as
I'm ever gonna get.
(imitating moose call).
To be sleeping here, stopped
at many place as I have,
hiked as many miles as I have,
without seeing a bull moose,
kind of makes me
question myself.
Am I crazy?
What am I doing?
I'm getting down to
the crunch time here.
Tomorrow's gonna be big time,
my last-ditch effort to come
out of here with a moose.
Chris: You're always fighting
against mother nature.
And honestly, mother
nature always wins.
So, we just have to find
our niche and chase after it.
That's perfect.
Currently the river is down,
so we think it's a good time
to get the net in the water.
Look at that.
We got a slow-moving eddy
that goes through here,
so hopefully we get this
set out just right and we can
catch some fish with it.
Jessi: All right, well,
we're gonna have to do
something here, love.
Chris: Yeah,
fishing's just been a bust.
But cosna has different
plans for us this year.
We got a long
winter ahead of us.
Right now, I wanna
focus on grouse.
I've been hearing 'em.
Let's get em!
The cosna river really hasn't
been generous with giving us
fish this year.
But luckily the grouse
are back in full force.
I love this little
spot across the river.
There's just little
tiny pebbles and sand,
and those birds love
munching down on it.
Helps them digest their food.
Jessi: There's six
grouse are across the river.
You can throw
something or shoot over there.
And they'll usually fly
over the river towards you.
They're in the tree.
They're over.
Jessi: Four grouse just flew
over the river and they're
right up here in these trees.
Chris: I see one.
Right here on this
branch sticking out
between the two birch.
He's kinda hidden.
(gunshot).
Get 'em, jess!
Jessi: No, don't
go in the river!
Don't go in the river!
Damn it!
What am I gonna do, chris?
Chris: (bleep). (bleep).
Get me a stick.
Quick, quick,
quick, quick, quick!
I'm gonna lose him!
Jessi: I can't get
down there, chris.
Chris: I can.
Come on, buddy.
I got him.
Jessi: Holy smokes!
Chris: There's nothing worse
than killing a grouse and
watching it float down river.
Jessi: I'm right here.
I'll help you up.
Chris: We're real big into
"if you kill something or you
wound something you have to
do everything in your power to
harvest that animal."
just take the grouse
so it doesn't fall.
I'll work my way up down-river.
Give me a second.
Jessi: That was a
difficult grouse, man.
Try to go get some more.
Chris: Did they all fly off?
Jessi: I'm looking.
I don't think.
Chris: I bet they're
still in the tree.
Jessi: I bet
they're still here.
Chris: Oh, that feels
good to get a grouse.
We've been having such
a hard time with fish.
Jessi: Oh!
Right here, chris.
Come here! Come here! Come here!
There's a spruce and
he's almost at the top.
Chris: Okay, I see him.
Jessi: Okay, I'm gonna
get ready so this
doesn't happen again.
(gunshot).
Chris: Pop in
the wide clearing.
Make sure this goes
in nice and tight.
Jessi: Thank you so much.
Thank you, grouse.
Thank you.
That's a big grouse.
That is a huge grouse, man.
Chris: Awesome.
If we can eat
one grouse a day,
and we're only
bringing one or two home,
we're not stocking up much.
We gotta come out morning and
night and get as many as we can.
Jessi: Try to
get a couple more?
Chris: Yeah, that'd be
great if we get a couple more.
Jessi: Out here, it does seem
like we have to work a lot
harder for our dinner.
But do I want to pay
the price in town?
No.
Do I wanna pay
the price out here?
Absolutely.
There's a grouse,
right over there.
Him go left and me go right.
We gotta do
everything that we can...
Gosh darn it!
To get as many grouse as
possible to sustain us through
this winter.
Chris: Here, grouse, grouse!
(gunshot).
Michael: This has been one
of the most challenging moose
hunts I've ever gone on.
This is the last
day of the hunt.
First time I've ever got this
nervous about filling my food
cache for the season.
Woke up all night
from a cold rain.
I sent out calls
every hour or so.
Before first light.
Just right there
in the landscape,
with my rifle
right next to me.
(imitating moose call).
I can't tell if my ears are
playing tricks on me or not.
And then finally, the
moose I had been waiting for.
Tricked this big
fighter into a fight.
(imitating moose call).
Try to bring him right
to the river's edge.
(imitating moose call).
Shh.
(gunshot).
♪ ♪
it's so dark out, I could
barely make out his body.
Strong bull.
(imitating moose call).
A big warrior.
Put him down with
the first shot,
it's been about
three, four minutes.
He's still struggling to get
his feeting underneath him.
(gunshot).
Just to be on the safe side.
I've seen a big bull moose get
hit in the neck and jump right
back up five minutes
later, run for miles.
I don't want an
animal to suffer.
I'm not really
here to hunt antlers.
I'm here to hunt
whatever comes in the call.
But, now walking up onto it.
I then realize how
big this moose was.
The size of a dinosaur.
Biggest bull
moose I've ever shot.
Remarkable.
He's bigger than
I thought he was!
Couldn't quite tell
'cause it was so dark.
First light, comes
barreling in here,
scraping brush.
He's definitely in full rut.
His eyeballs
popped out of his head;
he's looking for a fight.
I gotta get to processing.
It's gonna be a long day.
Alex: Come on.
Yeah, I got food in my hands.
In parts of the world that
humans really should be living,
there's food growing
on trees, right?
Here you go, sips.
You're used to getting
everything you want.
I was a city person too, but
after you've been kinda out
here for a while, you
can't afford to be picky.
♪ I see the clouds
start rolling in ♪
alex: I wanted a moose,
but I didn't get a moose.
I got grouse instead.
I can be upset about
that or I can appreciate
it for what it is.
Chris: One. Two. And.
Jessi: Oh my gosh!
I don't have to be
successful in a large hunt.
Look at that thing!
Some of the smallest things
that I've succeeded out here
have meant the most.
Chris: The fyke net works!
Jessi: Holy smokes.
There's something incredibly
special about being able to
just go out into the forest
to provide for your family.
These are the
moments that I wait for.
Gilbert: Can I?
Brittany: Mm-hm. Yeah!
This is a fancy hutch!
I really appreciate
kaleb's expertise.
In high school, I
wouldn't really build things.
Kaleb: Oh, boy.
Brittany: Now, eight
years into my marriage,
I know I can do it, and
that's very exciting.
Does he like it?
Elovie: He love it.
Michael: You know, some folks,
they're born on a certain river,
and they stay on that river.
They have a campsite,
an established moose camp.
They go back to it every year.
But what's the
challenge in that?
I follow my principles,
and this was no easy hunt,
but it paid off.
Oh, man, I'm gonna
feel that in the morning,
but I am done.
♪ ♪
(imitating moose call).
Alex: There's some quote
from a book I read once.
You know, when a man
has food in his mouth,
all questions are answered.
Captioned by cotter
captioning services.